[main] Add support for SVE (#172)
ARM-software/acle: main/acle.md

* In [Data types](#data-types), clarified that `__fp16` and `__bf16` are
  predefined types whereas vector types like `int32x4_t` are not.
* Moved the [Future directions](#future-directions) chapter to the end.

> * Added support for SVE and SVE2. This incorporates the final 00bet6

Reviewer: Maybe create a link for the text `support for SVE and SVE2` into the main section of the SVE header file`<arm_sve.h>`?

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>svint8_t</code></td>
    <td>0</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>3</td>
    <td>4</td><td>5</td><td>6</td><td>7</td><td>8</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>svint16_t</code></td>
    <td>0</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td>
    <td>2</td><td>-</td><td>3</td><td>-</td><td>4</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>svint32_t</code></td>
    <td>0</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td>
    <td>1</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>2</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>svint64_t</code></td>
    <td>0</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td>
    <td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>1</td>
  </tr>
</table>
```

```{=tex}
\begin{longtable}[]{@{}llllllllll@{}}
\toprule
Vector type & \multicolumn{9}{l}{Element selected by each \texttt{svbool\_t} bit (from lsb)}\tabularnewline
\midrule
\endhead
\texttt{svint8\_t}  & 0 & 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & 5 & 6 & 7 & 8\tabularnewline
\texttt{svint16\_t} & 0 & - & 1 & - & 2 & - & 3 & - & 4\tabularnewline
\texttt{svint32\_t} & 0 & - & - & - & 1 & - & - & - & 2\tabularnewline
\texttt{svint64\_t} & 0 & - & - & - & - & - & - & - & 1\tabularnewline
\bottomrule
\end{longtable}

> ```

Author: Can we try it as-is first, and consider something else if it doesn't work?  I tried both the pdf and html versions locally and it seemed to come out OK.

> ```

Reviewer: > I tried both the pdf and html versions locally and it seemed to come out OK.
The HTML version is build with Jekyll, not pandoc . Or have you actually tested Jekyll locally?

> ```

Author: > > I tried both the pdf and html versions locally and it seemed to come out OK.
> 
> The HTML version is build with Jekyll, not pandoc . Or have you actually tested Jekyll locally?

I tried cut-&-pasting it into a github edit of README.md and clicking “Preview”.  It seemed to render well.

> ```

Reviewer: > I tried cut-&-pasting it into a github edit of README.md and clicking “Preview”. It seemed to render well.

Oh, that's a very good data point, because I believe GitHub uses the same Jekyll both for browsing the project and for generating Pages.

You could always activate Pages on your github.io page and browse the final effect via https://rsandifo-arm.github.io/acle/

> ```

Author: I need complex(ish) tables for the SVE intrinsics documentation, so I looked for a way to keep the current HTML vs. LaTeX switch.  It turns out that kramdown doesn't support “```{=format}…```”, so the updated patch takes a different approach, described in the new covering message.  It seems to give good output for HTML and PDF, although TBH the HTML table doesn't look as good with the custom styling as it did with the default GitHub one.  We might want to tweak the style later (if only for this table).

> ```

Author: I've reworked the text and table so that we can use a simpler markdown table.

        *   a base type requires size N

    Note that this definition specifically excludes reference and pointer
    types.

*   A function type “requires size N” if the return type requires size N
    or if at least one parameter type requires size N.

*   A program is ill-formed if:

    *   any function type requires two different sizes N1 and N2.

    *   `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS!=N` when defining a function whose type
        requires size N.

    *   `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS!=N` when calling a function whose type
        requires size N. (Note that this explicitly excludes parameters
        passed through “`...`”.)

    *   an object whose type requires some size N is passed to an
        unprototyped function.

    However, the implementation does not need to diagnose these cases.

    These rules only have an effect if an implementation allows the
    register size to vary within a translation unit. The aim is to forbid
    function definitions and function calls that have no mapping to the
    AAPCS64 calling conventions. For example, if an implementation
    supports some form of pragma that changes `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS`
    within a translation unit:

    ``` c

>       …pragma that changes __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS to 256…

Author: I've replaced `…` with `...` throughout (in code and outside).  I didn't comment the lines because I wanted to make it clear that this was supposed to be a stand-in for real code.

      typedef svfloat32_t vec256 __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(256)));

>       …pragma that changes __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS to 512…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // ...pragma that changes __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS to 512...
```

```

where the individual parts are as follows:

**base**

> For most intrinsics this is the lower-case name of an SVE
> instruction, but with some adjustments:
>
> *   The most common change is to drop `F`, `S` and `U` if they
>     stand for “floating-point”, “signed” and “unsigned” respectively,
>     in cases where this would duplicate information in the type
>     suffixes below.
>
> *   Simple non-extending loads and non-truncating stores drop the
>     size suffix (`B`, `H`, `W` or `D`), which would always duplicate
>     information in the suffixes.
>
> *   Conversely, extending loads always specify an explicit extension
>     type, since this information is not available in the suffixes.
>     A sign-extending load has the same base as the architectural
>     instruction (e.g. `ld1sb`) while a zero-extending load replaces
>     the `s` with a `u` (e.g. `ld1ub` for a zero-extending `LD1B`).
>     Thus [`svld1ub_u32`](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#q=svld1ub_u32)
>     zero-extends 8-bit data to a vector of
>     `uint32_t`s while [`svld1sb_u32`](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#q=svld1sb_u32)

> >     sign-extends 8-bit data to a vector of `uint32_t`s.

Reviewer: Why are these lines and those following quoted?

Author: > Why are these lines and those following quoted?

It's just a way of formatting the text to look like a description list.  There is an extension that supports description lists directly:
```
thing

:   description
```
but although pandoc supports it, github doesn't.

Reviewer: Why not make the description a header of level 4? This would look useful in the toc:

## SVE intrinsics
### SVE naming convention
#### base
description of base...
#### disambiguator
...
#### type0 and type1
...
#### predication
...

Author: It's actually a nested description list: we have another one inside the “predication” entry, so we'd still need something there.

I don't think “base” on its own would be a good section heading.  It doesn't give much context and it doesn't follow the house style of using sentence case.

Reviewer: Oh I see - so it is more complicated than it looks. This seems to be an extra reason for using level sectioning. If `base` and others are not good titles, maybe let's try to use something along the lines of 

```
#### Base convention
#### Type0 and Type1 conventions
#### Convention for predication
##### Zeroing - `z`
....
```

Author: But the current “base”, “disambiguator” etc. refer back to:

```
  svbase[_disambiguator][_type0][_type1]…[_predication]
```

Rewording them loses that link.

Also, I think the current version looks better in terms of formatting.  It was a description list in the original doc, and for instance we have:
```
  **predication**
  
  > This suffix describes the inactive elements in the result of a
  > predicated operation. It can be one of the following:
  >
  > **`z`**
  >
  > > Zero predication: set all inactive elements of the result to zero.
  > …
  > Predicated loads, predicated comparisons and predicated string match
  > operations are always zeroing operations, so for brevity, the
  > corresponding intrinsics have no predication suffix.
```
where the final paragraph is part of the general “predication” entry.

Assuming `float64_t` data, the C version of the code above would be:

``` c
  svfloat64_t z0, z1, z2;
  svbool_t p0, p1, p2, p3;
  double *x0, *x1, *x2;
  …
  svsetffr();
  z0 = svldff1[_f64](p0, x0);
  z1 = svldff1[_f64](p1, x1);
  z2 = svldff1[_f64](p2, x2);
  p3 = svrdffr();
```

### List of SVE intrinsics

The full list of SVE intrinsics can be found on
[developer.arm.com](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiessimdisa=[sve,sve2])
This list includes SVE2 and other SVE extensions (such as the 32-bit
matrix multiply extensions).

The tick boxes on the left can be used to narrow the displayed
intrinsics to particular data types and element sizes. Below that is an
instruction group hierarchy that groups the intrinsics based on the
operation that they perform.

### Mapping of SVE instructions to intrinsics

#### List of instructions

This section contains a list of all FEAT_SVE instructions. For each one it
gives a reference to the associated ACLE intrinsic or explains why no
such intrinsic exists.

| **Instruction**                      | **Intrinsic** |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------- |

> | ABS                                  | [`svabs`](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiesreturnbasetype=[int]&q=svabs) |

Author: Hmm, not sure.  I see the log also has:
```
2022-02-26T11:11:31.1678265Z [✖] https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#q=svcntb_pat → Status: 403
```
which looks like a fairly innocuous uri.

> | ABS                                  | [`svabs`](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiesreturnbasetype=[int]&q=svabs) |

Reviewer: > [...] looks like a fairly innocuous uri.

Yeah, the server is refusing to load that too because it seeing all the other requests, so it doesn't matter what the rest of the URL looks like. After a certain threshold, all request are rejected.

> | ABS                                  | [`svabs`](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiesreturnbasetype=[int]&q=svabs) |

Author: I tried fixing(?) the path in ci.yml and the latest version came back clean.  Would feel more confident in the result if it printed more than an “OK” line though :-)

Code that makes direct use of SVE instructions therefore needs access to
vector types that have VG×64 bits and predicate types that have VG×8
bits, but without the value of VG being fixed. Ideally it should be
possible to pass and return these types by value, like it is for other
(fixed-length) vector extensions. However, standard C and C++ do not
provide variable-length types that are both self-contained (rather than
dependent on separate storage) and suitable for passing and returning by
value. (For example, C's variable-length arrays are self-contained but
are not valid return types. C++'s `std::string` can store variable-length
data and is suitable for passing and returning by value, but it relies
on separately-allocated storage.)  There is therefore no existing
mechanism that maps directly to the concept of an SVE vector or predicate.

Any approach to defining the types would fall into one of three
categories:

1.  Limit the types in such a way that there is no concept of size.

2.  Define the size of the types to be variable.

3.  Define the size of the types to be constant, with the constant being
    large enough for all possible VG or with the types pointing to

>     separate memory (as for classes like `std::string`).

Author: I'd prefer to keep the enumeration here, since the following discussion refers to the options by number.

*   It is not possible to throw or catch objects of sizeless type.

*   Lambda expressions cannot capture sizeless types by value, although
    they can capture them by reference. (This is a corollary of not
    allowing member variables to have sizeless type.)

*   Standard library containers like `std::vector` cannot have a
    sizeless `value_type`.

#### Formal definition of sizeless types

[Sizeless types in C](#sizeless-types-in-c) gives a more formal
definition of sizeless types for C, in the form of an edit to the
standard. [Sizeless types in C++](#sizeless-types-in-cxx) gives the
corresponding changes for C++. Implementations should correctly compile
any code that follows these rules, but they do not need to report a
diagnostic for invalid uses of sizeless types. Whether they report a
diagnostic or not is a quality of implementation issue.
(Note that future versions of ACLE might have stricter diagnostic
requirements.)

##### Sizeless types in C

This section specifies the behavior of sizeless types as an edit to the
N1570 version of the C standard.

**6.2.5 Types**

> In 6.2.5/1, replace:
>
> > At various points within a translation unit an object type may

> > > be *incomplete* ...

Author: This is a quote from an external source, so I think we need to keep it as-is.

implements the source code for certain runtime register sizes. The code
is likely to abort or malfunction if the registers have a different
size. For example, if the code generator assumes that the vector register
size is exactly 256 bits, it might use:

``` asm
  ADD X1, X2, #32
```

instead of:

``` asm
  ADDVL X1, X2, #1
```

Let SourceVL be the set of vector register sizes supported by a piece of
SVE ACLE source code and ObjectVL be the set of vector register sizes
for which the object code correctly implements the source code. In both
cases, the set might be the set of all possible register sizes (referred
to as “unrestricted” below).

In general, object code created from SVE ACLE source code only works
correctly when the runtime register size belongs to the intersection of
SourceVL and ObjectVL. The behavior in other cases is undefined.

The compiler might impose a fixed ObjectVL set for all code or provide a
level of user control. It might also allow ObjectVL to vary within the
program, either within the same translation unit or between different
translation units. Whether and how this happens is currently outside the
scope of ACLE.

> Note that the combination of a singleton SourceVL and an unrestricted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: the combination of a singleton SourceVL and an unrestricted
```

Author: I removed the “note that” instead.

ObjectVL makes sense: ACLE source code written for a single register
size can still be compiled correctly without knowing what that size is,
just like an assembler can assemble SVE code without knowing what
register sizes the assembly code supports. Similarly, the combination of
a singleton ObjectVL and an unrestricted SourceVL makes sense: ACLE
source code written for all register sizes can still be compiled for
only a single register size, perhaps to try to improve the performance
of surrounding code. Other combinations are also possible.

This section describes ACLE features related to singleton ObjectVLs.
They are intended to help cases in which SourceVL is the same singleton.

All the features are optional: a conforming ACLE implementation does not
need to provide them.

> Note that the types defined in [SVE vector types](#sve-vector-types) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: the types defined in [SVE vector types](#sve-vector-types) and
```

[SVE predicate types](#sve-predicate-types) are always sizeless types and
are subject to the same restrictions for all SourceVL and for all ObjectVL.

#### The `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS` macro

As an optional extension, an ACLE implementation may set the
preprocessor macro:

``` c
  __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS
```

to a nonzero value N provided that:

*   ObjectVL (see [Introduction to fixed-length SVE
    types](#introduction-to-fixed-length-sve-types)
    is a singleton vector register size of N bits; and

*   it is possible to apply the `arm_sve_vector_bits(N)` attribute to
    SVE vector types and SVE predicate types, as described in
    [The `arm_sve_vector_bits` attribute](#the-arm_sve_vector_bits-attribute).

If the implementation allows ObjectVL to be changed within a translation
unit, it must ensure that the value of the macro remains accurate after

> each change. It is therefore possible for `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS` to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
each change. Therefore, it is possible for `__ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS` to
```

Author: I reworded this to avoid the “therefore” instead.

have different values at different points in a translation unit.

Defining the macro to zero has the same meaning as not defining it all.

#### The `arm_sve_vector_bits` attribute

##### Syntax and requirements

> An ACLE implementation may provide the following GNU-style type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An ACLE implementation might provide the following GNU-style type
```

Author: I went for “can choose to” instead.

  typedef svbool_t pred __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(512)));
  #endif
```

creates a type called `vec` that acts a fixed-length version of
`svint32_t` and a type called `pred` that acts as a fixed-length
version of `svbool_t`. Both types are normal sized types; `vec`
contains exactly 512 bits (64 bytes) and `pred` contains exactly 64
bits (8 bytes):

``` c
  #if __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS==512
  typedef svint32_t vec __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(512)));
  typedef svbool_t pred __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(512)));

  svint32_t g1;  // Invalid, svint32_t is sizeless
  vec g2;        // OK
  svbool_t g3;   // Invalid, svbool_t is sizeless
  pred g4;       // OK

  struct wrap1 { svint32_t x; };  // Invalid, svint32_t is sizeless
  struct wrap2 { vec x; };        // OK
  struct wrap3 { svbool_t x; };   // Invalid, svbool_t is sizeless
  struct wrap4 { pred x; };       // OK

  size_t size1 = sizeof(svint32_t);  // Invalid, svint32_t is sizeless
  size_t size2 = sizeof(vec);        // OK, equals 64
  size_t size3 = sizeof(svbool_t);   // Invalid, svbool_t is sizeless
  size_t size4 = sizeof(pred);       // OK, equals 8
  #endif
```

> More specifically, the following rules apply to both vector and
> predicate VLST types:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following rules apply to both vector and
predicate VLST types:
```

    However, the implementation does not need to diagnose these cases.

    This rule avoids any ambiguity about whether the result of the
    conditional expression is sized or sizeless. For example:

    ``` c
      #if __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS==512
      typedef svint32_t vec __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(512)));
      auto f(bool cond, vec x, svint32_t y) { return cond ? x : y; }
      #endif
    ```

    is ill-formed because it is not clear whether the type of the result
    should come from `x` or `y`.

*   VLST maps to the same AAPCS64 ABI type as VLAT. For example:

    ``` c
      svint32_t __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(128)))
    ```

    maps to the same AAPCS64 type as `svint32_t`, rather than to the
    same AAPCS64 type as the `arm_neon.h` type `int32x4_t`.

*   An object type “requires size N” if:

    *   it is an SVE vector type or SVE predicate type that has the
        attribute `arm_sve_vector_bits(N)`;

    *   it is an array type whose element type requires size N; or

    *   it is a class or struct and:

        *   at least one non-static member has a type that requires size N; or

        *   a base type requires size N

>     Note that this definition specifically excludes reference and pointer
>     types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Note: this definition specifically excludes reference and pointer
    types.
```

    *   assignments `&=`, `|=` and `^=`

    *   comparisons `<`, `<=`, `==`, `!=`, `>=` and `>`

    All operators behave analogously to GNU vectors. For example:

    ``` c
      #if __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS==256 && __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_PREDICATE_OPERATORS
      typedef svbool_t pred __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(256)));
      auto f(pred x, pred y) { return x & y; }    // Returns a pred
      #endif
    ```

*   VLST supports the array subscript operator `[]` in a way that
    behaves analogously to GNU vectors, except that it is not possible to
    take the address of the result. For example:

    ``` c
      #if __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS==256 && __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_PREDICATE_OPERATORS
      typedef svbool_t pred __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(256)));
      pred x;
      bool f() { x[1] = true; return x[0]; }
      #endif
    ```

*   Within a byte, subscripts count from the least significant bit. For
    example:

    ``` c
      #if __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_BITS==256 && __ARM_FEATURE_SVE_PREDICATE_OPERATORS
      svbool_t p __attribute__((arm_sve_vector_bits(256))) = { 0, 1 };
      #endif
    ```

    sets the first byte of `p` to 2 for both big- and little-endian targets.

> An implementation may provide other operators too, but it does not need
> to do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An implementation might provide other operators too, but it does not need
to do so.
```

Author: The meaning was more that an implementation is allowed to provide other operations too, so I changed it to “can”.

> Note that, at the time of writing, the GNU `vector_size` extension is
> not defined for `bool` elements, nor for packed vectors of single bits.
> The definition above is intended to be a conservative subset of what such
> an extension might provide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: at the time of writing, the GNU `vector_size` extension is
not defined for `bool` elements, nor for packed vectors of single bits.
The definition above is intended to be a conservative subset of what such
an extension might provide.
```

> > vector argument.
> >
> > Unary operations have a separate vector argument that comes
> > before the general predicate; for example:
> >
> > ``` asm
> >   CLZ Zd.H, Pg/M, Zs.H
> > ```
> >
> > corresponds to:
> >
> > ``` c
> >   Zd = svclz_u16_m(Zd, Pg, Zs);
> > ```
> >
> > Note that the argument does not need to be syntactically related
> > to the result; calls such as:
> >
> > ``` c
> >   Zd = svclz_u16_m(svadd_u16_z(...), Pg, Zs);
> > ```
> >
> > are also valid.
> >
> > Binary and ternary operations reuse the first argument to the
> > operation as the merge input; for example:
> >
> > ``` asm
> >   ADD Zd.S, Pg/M, Zd.S, Zs2.S
> > ```
> >
> > corresponds to:
> >
> > ``` c
> >   Zd = svadd_u32_m(Pg, Zd, Zs2);
> > ```
> >
> > where the `Zd` argument supplies both the values of inactive
> > elements and the first operand to the addition. Again, the merge
> > input does not need to be syntactically related to the result.
>
> **`x`**
>
> > “Don't-care” predication: set the inactive elements to
> > **unknown** values. These values could be arbitrary register
> > contents left around from a previous operation, so accidentally

> > > using the inactive elements could lead to data leakage.

Reviewer 2: If this could lead to data leakage, should it be a Warning.

> >
> > This form of predication removes the need to choose between
> > zeroing and merging in cases where the inactive elements are
> > unimportant. The code generator can then pick whichever form of
> > instruction seems to give the best code. This includes using
> > unpredicated instructions, where available and suitable.
>
> Predicated loads, predicated comparisons and predicated string match
> operations are always zeroing operations, so for brevity, the
> corresponding intrinsics have no predication suffix.

### Overloaded aliases of SVE intrinsics

The intrinsic names that are described in [SVE naming
convention](#sve-naming-convention) often carry information that is
obvious from the types of the arguments. For example, `svclz_u16_z`
always takes a `svuint16_t` and no other form of `svclz_type_z` does.
ACLE therefore defines shorter, overloaded, aliases that are compatible
with both C++ overloading and C `_Generic` associations. At a
minimum, this means that all overloaded forms of an intrinsic have the
same number of arguments and that it is possible to select the correct
overload by considering each argument from left to right.

> (Note that although the overloading scheme is compatible with `_Generic`, a C
> implementation can use some other implementation-specific way of achieving
> the same effect.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(Note: although the overloading scheme is compatible with `_Generic`, a C
implementation can use other implementation-specific ways of achieving
the same effect.)
```

use LD1RD.

In a vector operation, the disambiguator `_n` indicates that the final
operand is a scalar rather than a vector.

### Immediate arguments to SVE intrinsics

Some intrinsics take enumeration values as arguments. These enumerations
must always be integer constant expressions that specify a valid
enumeration value.

A few intrinsics take general integer immediates as arguments. In the
[intrinsics documentation](https://developer.arm.com/architectures/instruction-sets/intrinsics/#f:@navigationhierarchiessimdisa=[sve,sve2]),
these arguments always start with the prefix `imm`. Immediate arguments
must be integer constant expressions within a certain range (which is
the same as the range of the underlying SVE instruction).

### Faults and exceptions in SVE intrinsics

Loads and stores can trigger faults in the same way as normal pointer
dereferences. Exactly what happens then depends on the host environment
and is out of scope for this document. However, these faults should be
symptoms of a program going wrong rather than something that the
programmer deliberately planted. The implementation can therefore remove
or reorder potentially faulting operations as long as:

> 1.  doing so would not cause a previously non-faulting program to fault;
>     and
> 
> 2.  faults do not move between C++ exception blocks, in cases where
>     faults are reported as exceptions.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  doing so would not cause a previously non-faulting program to fault;
    and

*  faults do not move between C++ exception blocks, in cases where
    faults are reported as exceptions.

```

Also, many floating-point operations can raise IEEE exceptions. A
similar set of rules apply there: the implementation can remove or
reorder operations that might raise an IEEE exception if:

> 1.  doing so would not cause a program to raise IEEE exceptions in cases
>     where it would not previously;
> 
> 2.  IEEE exceptions do not move between C++ exception blocks, in cases
>     where IEEE exceptions are reported as C++ exceptions; and
> 
> 3.  IEEE exceptions do not move across functions that manipulate the IEEE
>     exception state.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* doing so would not cause a program to raise IEEE exceptions in cases
    where it would not previously;

*  IEEE exceptions do not move between C++ exception blocks, in cases
    where IEEE exceptions are reported as C++ exceptions; and

* IEEE exceptions do not move across functions that manipulate the IEEE
    exception state.

```

do depend on the order of the instructions, since the guarantees would
be different if the loads had a different order. However, the point of
the loads is to try to access more than the first active element, so
these relationships are not useful in practice.

ACLE therefore divides first-faulting and non-faulting loads (but
not normal loads) into “FFR groups”. Each group begins and ends with an
intrinsic that explicitly reads from or writes to the FFR. More precisely,
ACLE introduces a global “first-fault register token” (FFRT) that identifies
the current FFR group. This FFRT is a purely conceptual construct and contains
three pieces of information:

| **Identifier** | **Contents**                                                   |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| *nwrite*       | the number of explicit writes to the FFR                       |
| *lastwrite*    | the last value written to the FFR                              |
| *nread*        | the number of explicit reads from the FFR since the last write |

There are only two possible ways of modifying this FFRT:

> 1.  Increment *nwrite* by one, set *lastwrite* to a given value, and set
>     *nread* to zero.
> 
> 2.  Increment *nread* by one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Increment *nwrite* by one, set *lastwrite* to a given value, and set
    *nread* to zero.

*  Increment *nread* by one.
```

Author: I would prefer to keep the enumeration here, since the following text refers to the “first” and “second” operation.

*   ADDPL and ADDVL

*   DECB, DECH, DECW, DECD, and DECP

*   INCB, INCH, INCW, INCD, and INCP

Instead the implementation should use these instructions to optimize things
like:

``` c
  svbool_t p1;
  ...
  x += svcntp_b16(p1, p1);
```

The same concerns do not apply to saturating scalar arithmetic, since
using saturating arithmetic only makes sense for displacements rather
than pointers. There is also no standard way of doing a saturating
addition or subtraction of arbitrary integers. ACLE does therefore
provide intrinsics for:

*   SQDECB, SQDECH, SQDECW, SQDECD, and SQDECP

*   SQINCB, SQINCH, SQINCW, SQINCD, and SQINCP

*   UQDECB, UQDECH, UQDECW, UQDECD, and UQDECP

*   UQINCB, UQINCH, UQINCW, UQINCD, and UQINCP

#### CTERMEQ and CTERMNE

CTERMEQ and CTERMNE provide a way of optimizing conditions such as:

``` c
  svbool_t p1, p2;
  uint64_t x, y;
  ...
  if (svptest_last(p1, p2) && x == y)
    ...stmts...
```

Here the implementation could use PTEST to test whether the last active
element of `p2` is active and follow it by CTERMNE to test whether
`x` is not equal to `y`. The code should then execute `stmts` if the

> LT condition holds (i.e. if the last element is active and the
> “termination condition” `x != y` does not hold).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LT condition holds (that is,  if the last element is active and the
“termination condition” `x != y` does not hold).
```
